Linux

Linux is one of popular version of UNIX operating System. It is open source as its source
code is freely available. It is free to use. Linux was designed considering UNIX
compatibility. Its functionality list is quite similar to that of UNIX.


Components of Linux System
Linux Operating System has primarily three components
a) Kernel − Kernel is the core part of Linux. It is responsible for all major activities of
this operating system. It consists of various modules and it interacts directly with the
underlying hardware. Kernel provides the required abstraction to hide low level
hardware details to system or application programs.
b) System Library − System libraries are special functions or programs using which
application programs or system utilities accesses Kernel's features. These libraries
implement most of the functionalities of the operating system and do not require
kernel module's code access rights.
c) System Utility − System Utility programs are responsible to do specialized, individual
level tasks.

Structrure of Linux Operating System:
for structure refer https://www.tutorialspoint.com/operating_system/images/linux_os.jpg



Features
Following are some of the important features of Linux Operating System.
i. Portable − Portability means software can works on different types of hardware in
same way. Linux kernel and application programs supports their installation on any
kind of hardware platform.
ii. Open Source − Linux source code is freely available and it is community based
development project. Multiple teams work in collaboration to enhance the capability
of Linux operating system and it is continuously evolving.
iii. Multi-User − Linux is a multiuser system means multiple users can access system
resources like memory/ ram/ application programs at same time.
iv. Multiprogramming − Linux is a multiprogramming system means multiple
applications can run at same time.
v. Hierarchical File System − Linux provides a standard file structure in which system
files/ user files are arranged.
vi. Shell − Linux provides a special interpreter program which can be used to execute
commands of the operating system. It can be used to do various types of operations,
call application programs. etc.
vii. Security − Linux provides user security using authentication features like password
protection/ controlled access to specific files/ encryption of data.
